# 2109. Adding Spaces to a String
[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/adding-spaces-to-a-string/)

Difficulty: `Medium`

<details>
<summary> Tags</summary>

`Array`, `String`, `Simulation`
</details>

## Description:  
You are given a **0-indexed** string `s` and a **0-indexed** integer array
`spaces` that describes the indices in the original string where spaces will
be added. Each space should be inserted **before** the character at the given
index.

  * For example, given `s = "EnjoyYourCoffee"` and `spaces = [5, 9]`, we place spaces before `'Y'` and `'C'`, which are at indices `5` and `9` respectively. Thus, we obtain `"Enjoy **_Y_** our _**C**_ offee"`.

Return ****_the modified string **after** the spaces have been added._



**Example 1:**

    
    
    Input: s = "LeetcodeHelpsMeLearn", spaces = [8,13,15]
    Output: "Leetcode Helps Me Learn"
    Explanation: 
    The indices 8, 13, and 15 correspond to the underlined characters in "Leetcode _ **H**_ elps _ **M**_ e _ **L**_ earn".
    We then place spaces before those characters.
    

**Example 2:**

    
    
    Input: s = "icodeinpython", spaces = [1,5,7,9]
    Output: "i code in py thon"
    Explanation:
    The indices 1, 5, 7, and 9 correspond to the underlined characters in "i _ **c**_ ode _ **i**_ n _ **p**_ y _ **t**_ hon".
    We then place spaces before those characters.
    

**Example 3:**

    
    
    Input: s = "spacing", spaces = [0,1,2,3,4,5,6]
    Output: " s p a c i n g"
    Explanation:
    We are also able to place spaces before the first character of the string.
    



### Constraints:

  * `1 <= s.length <= 3 * 105`
  * `s` consists only of lowercase and uppercase English letters.
  * `1 <= spaces.length <= 3 * 105`
  * `0 <= spaces[i] <= s.length - 1`
  * All the values of `spaces` are **strictly increasing**.

### Hints:
<details>
<summary> hint 1</summary>

Create a new string, initially empty, as the modified string. Iterate through
the original string and append each character of the original string to the
new string. However, each time you reach a character that requires a space
before it, append a space before appending the character.


</details>
<details>
<summary> hint 2</summary>

Since the array of indices for the space locations is sorted, use a pointer to
keep track of the next index to place a space. Only increment the pointer once
a space has been appended.


</details>
<details>
<summary> hint 3</summary>

Ensure that your append operation can be done in O(1).


</details>


## Solution:  


### Explanation:  
The approach is strightforward - traversing the list *spaces* and adding space accordingly into the string *s*.
However, the way of adding matters, if using `s[:index] + ' ' +s[index:]`, the time complexity is `O(s)` which is super high.  
Therefore, using a List here instead is better, as the operation `List.append()` is only `O(1)`.

### Time complexity:  
`O(spaces)`  


### Space complexity:  
`O(s)`  


### Code:  
```python
class Solution:
    def addSpaces(self, s: str, spaces: List[int]) -> str:
        left=right=0
        res=[]
        for e in spaces:
            right = e
            res.append(s[left:right]+' ')
            left=right
        res.append(s[right:])
        return ''.join(res)
```


### Other great solutions:
[[Java/Python 3] Traverse input.](https://leetcode.com/problems/adding-spaces-to-a-string/discuss/1635039/JavaPython-3-Traverse-input.)
