# 2512. Reward Top K Students
[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/reward-top-k-students/)

Difficulty: `Medium`

<details>
<summary> Tags</summary>

`Array`, `Hash Table`, `String`, `Sorting`, `Heap (Priority Queue)`
</details>

<details>
<summary> Similar Questions</summary>

[Queue Reconstruction by Height](https://leetcode.com/problems/queue-reconstruction-by-height/)	`Medium`

[K Highest Ranked Items Within a Price Range](https://leetcode.com/problems/k-highest-ranked-items-within-a-price-range/)	`Medium`


</details>

## Description:  
You are given two string arrays `positive_feedback` and `negative_feedback`,
containing the words denoting positive and negative feedback, respectively.
Note that **no** word is both positive and negative.

Initially every student has `0` points. Each positive word in a feedback
report **increases** the points of a student by `3`, whereas each negative
word **decreases** the points by `1`.

You are given `n` feedback reports, represented by a **0-indexed** string
array `report` and a **0-indexed** integer array `student_id`, where
`student_id[i]` represents the ID of the student who has received the feedback
report `report[i]`. The ID of each student is **unique**.

Given an integer `k`, return _the top_`k` _students after ranking them in
**non-increasing** order by their points_. In case more than one student has
the same points, the one with the lower ID ranks higher.



**Example 1:**

    
    
    Input: positive_feedback = ["smart","brilliant","studious"], negative_feedback = ["not"], report = ["this student is studious","the student is smart"], student_id = [1,2], k = 2
    Output: [1,2]
    Explanation: 
    Both the students have 1 positive feedback and 3 points but since student 1 has a lower ID he ranks higher.
    

**Example 2:**

    
    
    Input: positive_feedback = ["smart","brilliant","studious"], negative_feedback = ["not"], report = ["this student is not studious","the student is smart"], student_id = [1,2], k = 2
    Output: [2,1]
    Explanation: 
    - The student with ID 1 has 1 positive feedback and 1 negative feedback, so he has 3-1=2 points. 
    - The student with ID 2 has 1 positive feedback, so he has 3 points. 
    Since student 2 has more points, [2,1] is returned.
    



### Constraints:

  * `1 <= positive_feedback.length, negative_feedback.length <= 104`
  * `1 <= positive_feedback[i].length, negative_feedback[j].length <= 100`
  * Both `positive_feedback[i]` and `negative_feedback[j]` consists of lowercase English letters.
  * No word is present in both `positive_feedback` and `negative_feedback`.
  * `n == report.length == student_id.length`
  * `1 <= n <= 104`
  * `report[i]` consists of lowercase English letters and spaces `' '`.
  * There is a single space between consecutive words of `report[i]`.
  * `1 <= report[i].length <= 100`
  * `1 <= student_id[i] <= 109`
  * All the values of `student_id[i]` are **unique**.
  * `1 <= k <= n`

### Hints:
<details>
<summary> hint 1</summary>

Hash the positive and negative feedback words separately.


</details>
<details>
<summary> hint 2</summary>

Calculate the points for each student’s feedback.


</details>
<details>
<summary> hint 3</summary>

Sort the students accordingly to find the top _k_ among them.


</details>


## Solution:  


### Explanation:  
We first need to compute the score of each student, which can be achieved straightforwardly by checking if a word in the report exists in postive/negative feedback.
One tip can reduce time complexity here is to convert `List` into `set`, so that each checking/searching takes only 1 computation, rather than the length of the list.  
I use a `dict` to store the result in a `id:score` pair.
The next step is to sort the `dict`, firstly based on the score(descendingly); secondly, if several (more than one) students have the same score, than sort them based on their id (ascendingly).  
Honestly I did not know that we can use the function `sorted( iterable, key)` in this way for `dict`. Definitely something I learn from other's solution.  

### Time complexity:  
`O(NlogN)`  


### Space complexity:  
`O(N)`  


### Code:  
```python
class Solution:
    def topStudents(self, positive_feedback: List[str], negative_feedback: List[str], report: List[str], student_id: List[int], k: int) -> List[int]:

        positive_feedback_set = set(positive_feedback) 
        negative_feedback_set = set(negative_feedback)
        def get_score(report: str) -> int:
            score = 0
            for word in report.split(' '):
                if word in positive_feedback_set:
                    score+=3
                elif word in negative_feedback_set:
                    score-=1

            return score
        
        score_dict = {} # id:score

        for sentence, id in zip(report, student_id): 
            score_dict[id] = get_score(sentence)

        return sorted(score_dict, key=lambda x:(score_dict[x], -x), reverse=True)[:k]
```


### Other great solutions:
[[C++|Java|Python3] sorting](https://leetcode.com/problems/reward-top-k-students/solutions/2946535/c-java-python3-sorting/)
