# 2829. Determine the Minimum Sum of a k-avoiding Array
[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/determine-the-minimum-sum-of-a-k-avoiding-array/)

Difficulty: `Medium`

<details>
<summary> Tags</summary>

`Math`, `Greedy`
</details>

## Description:  
You are given two integers, `n` and `k`.

An array of **distinct** positive integers is called a **k-avoiding** array if
there does not exist any pair of distinct elements that sum to `k`.

Return _the **minimum** possible sum of a k-avoiding array of length _`n`.



**Example 1:**

    
    
    Input: n = 5, k = 4
    Output: 18
    Explanation: Consider the k-avoiding array [1,2,4,5,6], which has a sum of 18.
    It can be proven that there is no k-avoiding array with a sum less than 18.
    

**Example 2:**

    
    
    Input: n = 2, k = 6
    Output: 3
    Explanation: We can construct the array [1,2], which has a sum of 3.
    It can be proven that there is no k-avoiding array with a sum less than 3.
    



### Constraints:

  * `1 <= n, k <= 50`

### Hints:
<details>
<summary> hint 1</summary>

Try to start with the smallest possible integers.


</details>
<details>
<summary> hint 2</summary>

Check if the current number can be added to the array.


</details>
<details>
<summary> hint 3</summary>

To check if the current number can be added, keep track of already added
numbers in a set.


</details>
<details>
<summary> hint 4</summary>

If the number `i` is added to the array, then `i + k` can not be added.


</details>


## Solution:  


### Explanation:  
We want to get the minimal sum, so that we should put small number into the k-avoiding array. 
Starting from 1, we check one by one if a number is possible to be added. If so, compute the sum and return the answer when *n* numbers are there in the array.
To reduce the time complexity, I use a `set()` so that the checking only costs O(1).


### Time complexity:  
`O(N)`  


### Space complexity:  
`O(N)`  


### Code:  
```python
class Solution:
    def minimumSum(self, n: int, k: int) -> int:

        k_avoiding = set()
        nof_num = 0
        i=0
        res=0
        while nof_num<n:
            i+=1
            if k-i not in k_avoiding:
                k_avoiding.add(i)
                nof_num+=1
                res+=i
 
        return res
```


### Other great solutions:

