# 299. Bulls and Cows
[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/bulls-and-cows/)

Difficulty: `Medium`

<details>
<summary> Tags</summary>

`Hash Table`, `String`, `Counting`
</details>

<details>
<summary> Similar Questions</summary>

[Make Number of Distinct Characters Equal](https://leetcode.com/problems/make-number-of-distinct-characters-equal/)	`Medium`


</details>

## Description:  
You are playing the **[Bulls and
Cows](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bulls_and_Cows)** game with your friend.

You write down a secret number and ask your friend to guess what the number
is. When your friend makes a guess, you provide a hint with the following
info:

  * The number of "bulls", which are digits in the guess that are in the correct position.
  * The number of "cows", which are digits in the guess that are in your secret number but are located in the wrong position. Specifically, the non-bull digits in the guess that could be rearranged such that they become bulls.

Given the secret number `secret` and your friend's guess `guess`, return _the
hint for your friend 's guess_.

The hint should be formatted as `"xAyB"`, where `x` is the number of bulls and
`y` is the number of cows. Note that both `secret` and `guess` may contain
duplicate digits.



**Example 1:**

    
    
    Input: secret = "1807", guess = "7810"
    Output: "1A3B"
    Explanation: Bulls are connected with a '|' and cows are underlined:
    "1807"
      |
    " _7_ 8 _10_ "

**Example 2:**

    
    
    Input: secret = "1123", guess = "0111"
    Output: "1A1B"
    Explanation: Bulls are connected with a '|' and cows are underlined:
    "1123"        "1123"
      |      or     |
    "01 _1_ 1"        "011 _1_ "
    Note that only one of the two unmatched 1s is counted as a cow since the non-bull digits can only be rearranged to allow one 1 to be a bull.
    



### Constraints:

  * `1 <= secret.length, guess.length <= 1000`
  * `secret.length == guess.length`
  * `secret` and `guess` consist of digits only.



## Solution:  


### Explanation:  
It is easy to get the value of `Bulls` by comparing the each digit of `secret` and `guess` pairwisely.  
In terms of the values of `cows`, we need to collect all unmatched digits first, and then count how many of digits of `guess` are there in `secret`.
To reduce computation, I choose `defauctdict(int)` to store the unmatched digits, in a format of `digit:counts`.  
So that the number of `cow` for digit `d` would be the minimal value in both `defauctdict(int)`s.

### Time complexity:  
`O(N)`  


### Space complexity:  
`O(N)`  


### Code:  
```python
from collections import defaultdict
class Solution:
    def getHint(self, secret: str, guess: str) -> str:

        bull = cow = 0
        unmatched_secret, unmatched_guess = defaultdict(int), defaultdict(int)
        for x,y in zip(secret, guess):
            if x==y:
                bull+=1
            else:
                unmatched_secret[x]+=1
                unmatched_guess[y]+=1

        for y in unmatched_guess:
            cow+=min(unmatched_secret[y], unmatched_guess[y])
        
        return f'{bull}A{cow}B'
```


### Other great solutions:
[[Python] Simple solution with counters, explained](https://leetcode.com/problems/bulls-and-cows/solutions/839444/python-simple-solution-with-counters-explained/?orderBy=most_votes)
