# 355. Design Twitter
[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-twitter/)

Difficulty: `Medium`

<details>
<summary> Tags</summary>

`Hash Table`, `Linked List`, `Design`, `Heap (Priority Queue)`
</details>

<details>
<summary> Similar Questions</summary>

[Design a File Sharing System](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-a-file-sharing-system/)	`Medium`


</details>

## Description:  
Design a simplified version of Twitter where users can post tweets,
follow/unfollow another user, and is able to see the `10` most recent tweets
in the user's news feed.

Implement the `Twitter` class:

  * `Twitter()` Initializes your twitter object.
  * `void postTweet(int userId, int tweetId)` Composes a new tweet with ID `tweetId` by the user `userId`. Each call to this function will be made with a unique `tweetId`.
  * `List<Integer> getNewsFeed(int userId)` Retrieves the `10` most recent tweet IDs in the user's news feed. Each item in the news feed must be posted by users who the user followed or by the user themself. Tweets must be **ordered from most recent to least recent**.
  * `void follow(int followerId, int followeeId)` The user with ID `followerId` started following the user with ID `followeeId`.
  * `void unfollow(int followerId, int followeeId)` The user with ID `followerId` started unfollowing the user with ID `followeeId`.



**Example 1:**

    
    
    **Input**
    ["Twitter", "postTweet", "getNewsFeed", "follow", "postTweet", "getNewsFeed", "unfollow", "getNewsFeed"]
    [[], [1, 5], [1], [1, 2], [2, 6], [1], [1, 2], [1]]
    **Output**
    [null, null, [5], null, null, [6, 5], null, [5]]
    
    **Explanation**
    Twitter twitter = new Twitter();
    twitter.postTweet(1, 5); // User 1 posts a new tweet (id = 5).
    twitter.getNewsFeed(1);  // User 1's news feed should return a list with 1 tweet id -> [5]. return [5]
    twitter.follow(1, 2);    // User 1 follows user 2.
    twitter.postTweet(2, 6); // User 2 posts a new tweet (id = 6).
    twitter.getNewsFeed(1);  // User 1's news feed should return a list with 2 tweet ids -> [6, 5]. Tweet id 6 should precede tweet id 5 because it is posted after tweet id 5.
    twitter.unfollow(1, 2);  // User 1 unfollows user 2.
    twitter.getNewsFeed(1);  // User 1's news feed should return a list with 1 tweet id -> [5], since user 1 is no longer following user 2.
    



### Constraints:

  * `1 <= userId, followerId, followeeId <= 500`
  * `0 <= tweetId <= 104`
  * All the tweets have **unique** IDs.
  * At most `3 * 104` calls will be made to `postTweet`, `getNewsFeed`, `follow`, and `unfollow`.



## Solution:  


### Explanation:  
We need to maintain the relationship of following, I choose to use a dictionary and set, as it is conventient to add and delete followers.  
For each tweet, only user ID and tweet ID are there.
Therefore, I use a list for all tweets and use a tuple `(userId, tweetId)` for each tweet.  
When getting feed, we can just reverse the list and retrive what we want based on give user ID.


### Time complexity:  
`O()`  


### Space complexity:  
`O()`  


### Code:  
```python
from collections import defaultdict
class Twitter:

    def __init__(self):
        self.follow_map = defaultdict(set)
        self.tweets = []
        
    def postTweet(self, userId: int, tweetId: int) -> None:
        self.tweets.append((userId, tweetId))
        
    def getNewsFeed(self, userId: int) -> List[int]:
        ans = []
        nof_tweet=0
        for uid, tid in self.tweets[::-1]:
            if uid==userId or uid in self.follow_map[userId]:
                ans.append(tid)
                nof_tweet+=1
            if nof_tweet==10:
                break
        return ans

    def follow(self, followerId: int, followeeId: int) -> None:
        self.follow_map[followerId].add(followeeId)

    def unfollow(self, followerId: int, followeeId: int) -> None:
        self.follow_map[followerId].discard(followeeId)


# Your Twitter object will be instantiated and called as such:
# obj = Twitter()
# obj.postTweet(userId,tweetId)
# param_2 = obj.getNewsFeed(userId)
# obj.follow(followerId,followeeId)
# obj.unfollow(followerId,followeeId)
```


### Other great solutions:

