# 807. Custom Sort String
[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/custom-sort-string/)

Difficulty: `Medium`

<details>
<summary> Tags</summary>

`Hash Table`, `String`, `Sorting`
</details>

## Description:  
`order` and `str` are strings composed of lowercase letters. In `order`, no
letter occurs more than once.

`order` was sorted in some custom order previously. We want to permute the
characters of `str` so that they match the order that `order` was sorted. More
specifically, if `x` occurs before `y` in `order`, then `x` should occur
before `y` in the returned string.

Return any permutation of `str` (as a string) that satisfies this property.

    
    
    **Example:**
    Input: 
    order = "cba"
    str = "abcd"
    Output: "cbad"
    Explanation: 
    "a", "b", "c" appear in order, so the order of "a", "b", "c" should be "c", "b", and "a". 
    Since "d" does not appear in order, it can be at any position in the returned string. "dcba", "cdba", "cbda" are also valid outputs.
    



**Note:**

  * `order` has length at most `26`, and no character is repeated in `order`.
  * `str` has length at most `200`.
  * `order` and `str` consist of lowercase letters only.



## Solution:  


### Explanation:  

We need to sort string `str` based on the order of `order`.
Therefore we would need to iterate over `str` and sort it into the given order.
Here we can just save count of each character in a `defaultdict` whose keys are also saved in order.
Then we just need to build up the answer accordingly.  

Some tips here:
If we create a string in this way: `str1 = str1 + str2`, the time complexity would be `O(len(str1)+len(str2))` or even much longer(`O(N^2)`) if we [add too many times](https://blog.csdn.net/Yuyh131/article/details/85391717).
A better way `(O(N))` is to use: `().join(List)` 

I also use a `set` to make it efficient, because `set` is from the idea of `Hashmap`, meaning that the search operation costs only `O(1)`.
Searching an element from a `list` takes `O(N)`


### Time complexity:  
`O(N)`  


### Space complexity:  
`O(N)`  


### Code:  
```python
from collections import defaultdict

class Solution:
    def customSortString(self, order: str, str: str) -> str:
        
        order_set=set(order)
        order_dict=defaultdict(int)
        res=[]
        
        for s in str:
            if s in order_set:
                order_dict[s]+=1
            else:
                res.append(s)
        
        for s in order:
            res.append(s*order_dict[s])
        
        return ('').join(res)
```


### Other great solutions:
[Python Priority queue solution O(NlgN)](https://leetcode.com/problems/custom-sort-string/discuss/117166/Python-Priority-queue-solution-O(NlgN))  
[[Java/Python 3] one Java 10 liner, Python 6 liner and 2 liner solutions w/ comment](https://leetcode.com/problems/custom-sort-string/discuss/116615/JavaPython-3-one-Java-10-liner-Python-6-liner-and-2-liner-solutions-w-comment)  
